---
ID: 14840
post_title: Adam Scott keeps major streak alive
author: Grant Hinkle
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/06/10/adam-scott-keeps-major-streak-alive/
published: true
post_date: 2018-06-10 23:00:20
---
<div><div><p>COLUMBUS, Ohio – Adam Scott pounded the scoring desk hard at the Memorial Tournament Presented by Nationwide on Sunday in frustration after a deflating final round.</p><p>The 13-time PGA TOUR winner had posted a 1-over 73 to drop from T11 to T35, significant because a good finish could have boosted his world ranking high enough to secure a start at the upcoming U.S. Open at Shinnecock.</p><p>Scott has played the last 67 major championships in a row, second only to Sergio Garcia’s 75, but the streak was in jeopardy.</p><p>He had a decision to make. Play 36 holes of U.S. Open sectional qualifying in Columbus or go straight to Memphis and prepare to play the FedEx St. Jude Classic in a last ditch bid to improve his world ranking from 64th to inside the top 60.</p><p>Once his anger subsided he chose Columbus.</p><p>Despite some nervous moments down the stretch the 2013 Masters champion shot a 6-under 66 at the tougher Brookside Golf &amp; Country Club and then held on with an even-par 72 at the Lakes Golf and Country Club to be one of 14 qualifiers.</p><p>“I am pumped. It has been an epic day. I haven’t played one of these in a long time but I really did enjoy playing today,” Scott said when a two-putt par from 30 feet on his final hole was enough to squeak in.</p><p>“It’s a nice streak to keep going but it will be better if I win the U.S. Open. I am playing all these majors to win them not just to show up, so I’d like to make the most of this opportunity.</p><p>“Today was a bit of a grind but somehow I’ve snuck through. The form has been coming around, so if I can have a nice week this week preparing and get myself in shape, I am really looking forward to Shinnecock – it is one of my favorite venues so I am really happy to be there.”</p><p>Having not played in a qualifier for so long that he couldn’t remember even doing so, it was a big fall from grace for Scott.</p><p>He was paired with two amateurs, a financial planner and a college player from the University of South Florida. Both asked for photos at the conclusion of play.</p><p>Instead of being annoyed, Scott embraced the entire process.</p><p>“It’s not a kick in the butt - it’s the realities of it,” he said.</p><p>“I haven’t played well enough for 12 months. It is relative, isn’t it? I’m 64th in the world and it is over for me if you ask some people.</p><p>“But if you look at my last four weeks I’ve probably shot more rounds in the 60s then I probably have in the last 12 months. There is definitely something going on in the right direction.</p><p>“I’m not a favorite at Shinnecock but I have the ability to put my game in shape to contend there next week. I have been wanting to play it badly so I am relieved I can now.”</p><p>Scott wasn’t the only major champion to book his ticket through the Columbus qualifier where 120 players chased 14 spots.</p><p>Keegan Bradley, the 2011 PGA Championship winner, finished 8 under to tie for third.</p><p>“It’s humbling to come out here,” Bradley, who has played in the last six U.S. Opens and 23 majors overall, said.</p><p>“It reminded me of TOUR school. There’s no joy.”</p><p>But there was joy for him in the end.</p><p>Ireland’s Shane Lowry shared medalist honors at 9 under with South Korean Sungjae Im, who currently leads the Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>Lowry finished T2 at Oakmont in the 2016 U.S. Open.</p><p>Brian Gay joined Bradley at 8 under.</p><p>Michael Putnam rebounded from a 73 at Brookside with a blistering 64 at Lakes to join India’s Shubhankar Sharma, Scotland’s Russell Knox and fellow Americans Patrick Rodgers and William Zalatoris at 7 under.</p><p>Joining Scott at 6 under were Scottish amateur Ryan Lumsden, Americans Harold Varner III and Ollie Schniederjans and Australian compatriot Aaron Baddeley.</p><p>AT&amp;T Pebble Beach Pro-Am winner Ted Potter Jr. won a nine-man playoff for the first alternate position. </p></div></div>