---
ID: 14948
post_title: >
  David Toms eyes second straight major at
  Senior Players
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/07/14/david-toms-eyes-second-straight-major-at-senior-players/
published: true
post_date: 2018-07-14 09:05:44
---
<div><div data-reactroot data-reactid=1 data-react-checksum=329049417><div data-reactid=3><section data-reactid=4><section data-reactid=5><div data-reactid=15><h1 data-reactid=16>Toms eyes second straight major at Senior Players</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=23><div data-reactid=24><p data-reactid=35><article data-reactid=36><p>HIGHLAND PARK, Ill. – David Toms is breathing a little easier.</p><p>Nothing like winning a major to toss a big weight off a player's shoulders, particularly when he had gone more than seven years without a victory on either the senior or regular tours.</p><p>Now, Toms has a shot at another one.</p><p>He comes into the Constellation Senior Players Championship looking to build on his win at the U.S. Senior Open at the Broadmoor two weeks ago.</p><p>''I was putting a lot of pressure on myself to try to win a tournament,'' Toms said. ''I felt like I had chances but wasn't getting it done, and that's when you think about when you go home at night away from the golf course. To finally get that, have that behind me now, it's all about going out and trying to play great and giving myself another opportunity.''</p><p>Toms is part of a loaded field at Exmoor Country Club featuring 49 of the top 50 senior players.</p><p>Scott McCarron, with seven top-10 finishes this year and a win at the American Family Insurance Championship at University Ridge last month, comes in looking to defend a bittersweet comeback victory in last year's Senior Players. He made up a six-shot deficit at Caves Valley near Baltimore to beat Bernhard Langer and Brandt Jobe by a stroke with a local caddie carrying his bag. His usual caddie Rich Mayo rushed to El Paso, Texas during the week to be with his ailing father, who died while Mayo was en route.</p><p>''His dad Bud was a great guy and loved watching Rich and I golf and compete, and would scream and yell at the TV all the time, so kind of felt his presence all week long,'' McCarron said.</p><p>Langer hopes to extend his record with an 11th senior major championship. He won this event from 2014-16 before a late collapse helped give McCarron his victory last year. Langer was leading by one when he dropped his tee shot into the water on No. 17 for a double bogey. He had a 6-foot birdie putt on No. 18 that would have forced a playoff lip out.</p><p>''It's a major. It's a big tournament for us,'' Langer said. ''We're all geared up to do the best we can.''</p><p>Toms is looking to build on a drought-busting victory. He spent last week vacationing with his family in Wyoming, getting in some time on the course with his son and avoiding the heat back home in Shreveport, La.</p><p>A 13-time winner on the PGA Tour, he hadn't finished at the top of a leaderboard since the 2011 Crowne Plaza Invitational at Colonial. That changed two weeks ago when he made two long putts down the stretch for his first PGA Tour Champions win.</p><p>Toms rolled in a 15-footer for birdie on No. 16 and buried a downhill 20-footer to save par after driving into a fairway bunker on the 530-yard, par-4 17th. He shot an even-par 70 to finish one shot ahead of Miguel Angel Jimenez, Tim Petrovic and Jerry Kelly.</p><p>Winning the U.S. Senior Open gave him a spot in the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach next year if he chooses to play. A victory this week would get him to The Players Championship in March, where he lost a heartbreaking playoff to K.J. Choi at TPC Sawgrass in 2011.</p><p>''There's a lot of things that go along with it, as well as the purse was pretty big,'' Toms said. ''It was almost like winning a regular tournament. All of that makes it pretty special. But at the same time, it was just more about winning a tournament.”</p><p>''All of the other stuff is just a bonus on top of that,'' he continued. ''For me, I think it'll be the shot to the arm that I needed to continue to play great.''</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=55><div data-reactid=59><div data-reactid=67><div data-reactid=68></div><div data-reactid=83></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=101><section data-reactid=102><section data-reactid=103><div data-reactid=116><h1 data-reactid=117>Source: Augusta’s fifth hole being lengthened 30 yards</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=124><div data-reactid=125><p data-reactid=136><article data-reactid=137><p>Augusta National is adding a tee box which will lengthen the par-4 fifth hole by 30 yards, Golf Channel’s Tim Rosaforte reported Wednesday night on “Golf Central.”</p><p>The hole currently plays upwards of 455 yards and was the fifth-most difficult par 4 at this year’s Masters Tournament.</p><p>"The new hole will play upwards of 485 yards in an attempt to restore the shot value that has been taken away by the distances achieved by the modern game," Rosaforte said. "Instead of 3-woods and 7-irons, the new fifth should require a driver and a 5-iron, at the very least, depending upon the conditions."</p><p>It was <a href=https://www.golfchannel.com/article/golf-central-blog/report-augusta-looking-lengthening-par-4-fifth-hole/ target=_blank>first reported in February</a> that the fifth hole would likely be lengthened. The change is expected to alleviate congestion between the tee and the nearby fourth green and includes plans to curve the road – which has been closed to public traffic since 2015 – around the new fifth tee.</p><p>This is the first club-enacted course change since six holes were altered in 2006.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=147><div data-reactid=151><div data-reactid=159><div data-reactid=160></div><div data-reactid=175></div></div></div></section></p><p data-reactid=190><section data-reactid=191><section data-reactid=192><div data-reactid=197><p data-reactid=198><span data-reactid=199> Le Golf National, site of the 2018 Ryder Cup.</span><span data-reactid=202> Getty Images </span></p></div></section><section data-reactid=216><div data-reactid=217><p data-reactid=228><article data-reactid=229><p>While there is virtually no chance Phil Mickelson will be left off the U.S. Ryder Cup team this year, he’s not currently inside the top eight in the standings that will receive an automatic bid following the PGA Championship.</p><p>At No. 10, U.S. captain Jim Furyk will almost certainly select his longtime friend.</p><p>On Monday, Lefty got a glimpse of Ryder Cup venue Le Golf National outside of Paris, and was thrilled with what he saw.</p><p>“It’s awesome,” Mickelson told Golf Channel’s Tim Rosaforte late Tuesday. “Not many drivers if any at all…long irons and poa greens. I love it.”</p><p>Mickelson added that he thinks the course will set up great for galleries because there are many spectacular viewing areas.</p><p>It’s already been a busy week for Mickelson even though he hasn’t yet hit a competitive shot.</p><p>Following the final round of The Greenbrier Sunday in West Virginia he bolted for Paris and played Le Golf National on Monday. On Tuesday, he was in Scotland and played Gullane, host of the Scottish Open, which begins Thursday. He’s grouped with Padraig Harrington and Kiradech Aphibarnrat.</p><p>On Wednesday, Mickelson was scheduled to have played Carnousite, host of The Open next week.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=242><div data-reactid=246><div data-reactid=254><div data-reactid=255></div><div data-reactid=270></div></div></div></section></p><div data-reactid=285><section data-reactid=286><section data-reactid=287><div data-reactid=297><h1 data-reactid=298>It's not coming home: Pros react to England's World Cup loss</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=305><div data-reactid=306><p data-reactid=317><article data-reactid=318><p>England and Croatia squared off in Russia on Wednesday for the right to take on France in the World Cup finals.</p><p>For weeks, English fans have touted the slogan, "It's coming home," in reference to what they believed was an impeding title. IT will be going to Croatia or France.</p><p>Prior to the start of the semifinal matchup, and during most of the contest, English pros were conspicuously quiet. Ian Poulter sent this tweet in advance of the match:</p><blockquote data-lang=en> — Ian Poulter (@IanJamesPoulter) <a href="https://twitter.com/IanJamesPoulter/status/1017100902480646145?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><p>England scored in the fifth minute and there was much rejoycing</p><blockquote data-lang=en>— Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) <a href="https://twitter.com/darrenrovell/status/1017114109735817223?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en>— Luke Donald (@LukeDonald) <a href="https://twitter.com/LukeDonald/status/1017107664675975168?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en>— Tyrrell Hatton (@TyrrellHatton) <a href="https://twitter.com/TyrrellHatton/status/1017107737191337989?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><p>In the 68th minute, Croatia tied it up at 1-1.</p><blockquote data-lang=en>— Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) <a href="https://twitter.com/darrenrovell/status/1017135510232403971?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>No thats not part of the script!!!!<br>It’s meant to be coming home</p>— Tyrrell Hatton (@TyrrellHatton) <a href="https://twitter.com/TyrrellHatton/status/1017128224424452101?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Be patient <a href="https://twitter.com/England?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@England</a>, Croatia’s last 2 games went to penalties, they are pressing hard, they’ll tire and we will score near the end! <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/prediction?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#prediction</a></p>— Luke Donald (@LukeDonald) <a href="https://twitter.com/LukeDonald/status/1017129387186061319?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><p>After ending regulation tied at 1-1, Croatia scored in the second extra session to take a 2-1 advantage and eventually won by that same margin, ending England's World Cup dream.</p><blockquote data-lang=en>— NBC Nightly News with Lester Holt (@NBCNightlyNews) <a href="https://twitter.com/NBCNightlyNews/status/1017154060737228803?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Heartbroken but England u have made us proud I love u sooooo much. I love u</p>— Andrew 'Beef' Johnston (@BeefGolf) <a href="https://twitter.com/BeefGolf/status/1017145887502618625?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en>— Luke Donald (@LukeDonald) <a href="https://twitter.com/LukeDonald/status/1017146393750855680?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Such a shame for it to end like that but what a World Cup!! Great to see a young England team achieve what they have! The future is bright for sure! <a href="https://twitter.com/England?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@England</a><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/WorldCup?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#WorldCup</a></p>— Matt Fitzpatrick (@MattFitz94) <a href="https://twitter.com/MattFitz94/status/1017149451457257473?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>That’s a real shame.. Dream start and played so well. It’s been amazing watching and feeling a nation who has been buzzing game after game. Hold your heads high lads. <a href="https://twitter.com/England?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@England</a></p>— Ian Poulter (@IanJamesPoulter) <a href="https://twitter.com/IanJamesPoulter/status/1017148197980995585?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en>— Justin Rose (@JustinRose99) <a href="https://twitter.com/JustinRose99/status/1017152277310857217?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Great effort lads! We are proud of your commitment and determination! <a href="https://twitter.com/England?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@England</a></p>— Sir Nick Faldo (@NickFaldo006) <a href="https://twitter.com/NickFaldo006/status/1017150529670144001?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Gutted, heartbroken, down beat, fed up, sick to the stomach. We’re all feeling it. But we WILL win a World Cup with this team and Coach! Pride restored for our nation! Be gutted tonight but realise how amazing our team of players have done!! Thanks for the memories England!!</p>— Tommy Fleetwood (@TommyFleetwood1) <a href="https://twitter.com/TommyFleetwood1/status/1017156210783596545?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote><p>Though, there was some trolling by Italy's Edoardo Molinari.</p><blockquote data-lang=en>— Edoardo Molinari (@DodoMolinari) <a href="https://twitter.com/DodoMolinari/status/1017146643714658305?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 11, 2018</a></blockquote></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=346><div data-reactid=350><div data-reactid=358><div data-reactid=359></div><div data-reactid=374></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=392><section data-reactid=393><section data-reactid=412><div data-reactid=413><p data-reactid=424><article data-reactid=425><p>The camouflage bag Tiger Woods used over the weekend in his previous start at the Quicken Loans National has raised a nice sum of money for his foundation.</p><p>The bag, on which Woods autographed and signed a personal message to the highest bidder, was auctioned off and raised $19,000 for his TGR Foundation.</p><blockquote data-lang=en>— Tiger Tracker (@GCTigerTracker) <a href="https://twitter.com/GCTigerTracker/status/1013081934073876482?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 30, 2018</a></blockquote><p>The bag was created by one of his sponsors, Monster Energy. Woods’ father, Earl, served in the U.S. Army, and the Quicken Loans tournament, which also benefited Tiger's foundation, annually allowed free admission to service members and their families.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=435><div data-reactid=439><div data-reactid=447><div data-reactid=448></div><div data-reactid=463></div></div></div></section></p></div></div>