---
ID: 14842
post_title: >
  Brandt Snedeker in contention after
  8-under 62 at the FedEx St. Jude Classic
author: Grant Hinkle
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/06/11/brandt-snedeker-in-contention-after-8-under-62-at-the-fedex-st-jude-classic/
published: true
post_date: 2018-06-11 14:51:09
---
<div><div><p>MEMPHIS, Tenn. — Brandt Snedeker was born and raised in Nashville, Tennessee, went to school at Vanderbilt University and still resides inside state lines. </p><p><span>One would assume the FedEx St. Jude Classic would be a mainstay on the schedule for the 8-time PGA TOUR winner — except you have to go back to 2013 to find the last time he teed it up at TPC Southwind.</span></p><p><span>For Snedeker, it was a combination of poor play — two missed cuts in his previous four starts in Memphis — and the event backing up to the U.S. Open that led him to leave it off his schedule. </span></p><p><span>"It's a golf course I've always loved," Snedeker said. "Played here a couple years and didn't have a lot of great success. Going into the U.S. Open I felt it might have been hindering me."</span></p><p><span>Instead of sticking with his normal pre-U.S. Open routine, Snedeker mixed things up and added the tournament this season following a stretch of three missed cuts in the last four events. </span></p><p><span>So far, the change in plans is paying off. </span></p><p><span>Snedeker followed an opening-round 71 with 62 on Friday, coming within one shot of tying the course record at TPC Southwind held by Jay Delsing (1993) and Bob Estes (2001). The round was also the lowest of his TOUR career. </span></p><p><span>The bogey-free day featured four birdies on each side and 149 feet, 11 inches worth of putts with an old Odyssey Rossie mallet. Snedeker led the field in Strokes Gained: Putting for the round, gaining 5.634 strokes on the greens. </span></p><p><span>He attributed the strong day with the putter to additional practice he put in early in the week that's started to pay dividends. </span></p><p><span>"Put a lot of time in, that's what it boils down to," said Snedeker, who's three shots off the lead at 7 under. "I know the tendency in my stroke to kind of get off, been working really hard on it. It's tough staying patient waiting for that good round to come."</span></p><p><span>This season has been a mixed bag for Snedeker, who missed time due to a sternum injury last year and has yet to fully regain his previous form. Through 15 starts, he's recorded four top 25s to go along with six missed cuts.  </span></p><p><span>"You've got to put the work in," Snedeker said, "but until you see results you start questioning what you're doing and you start questioning everything. You need to see these positive days."</span></p><p><span>After Friday's 62, things seem to be coming together for Snedeker, who's hoping to head into the U.S. Open on a high note, while also improving his ranking (128th) in the season-long FedExCup standings. </span></p><p><span>"It's been a long time coming," he said. "I know I'm playing good. It's somewhere in there, just got to get out of your own way."</span></p></div></div>