---
ID: 14999
post_title: 'Big Mama JoAnne Carner makes her mark at U.S. Senior Women&#8217;s Open'
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/07/16/big-mama-joanne-carner-makes-her-mark-at-u-s-senior-womens-open/
published: true
post_date: 2018-07-16 13:06:12
---
<div><div data-reactroot data-reactid=1 data-react-checksum=-531023144><div data-reactid=3><section data-reactid=4><section data-reactid=5><div data-reactid=15><h1 data-reactid=16>Big Mama makes her mark at U.S. Senior Women's Open</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=23><div data-reactid=24><p data-reactid=35><article data-reactid=36><p>JoAnne Carner didn’t make the cut Friday at the U.S. Senior Women’s Open, but the Hall of Famer left her mark on the inaugural event at Chicago Golf Club.</p><p>After shooting her age (79) in Thursday’s opening round, “Big Mama” won the admiration of fans and fellow players with the heart she put into trying to make it to the weekend.</p><p>“JoAnne Carner should be on a statue, for what she's done for golf and how she played yesterday, it's impressive,” Juli Inkster said. “I mean, that's all I could talk about last night. My kids called and I said, `Can you believe JoAnne Carner shot 79?’ She shot her age and she birdied the last hole to shoot her age. I just think it's so impressive.”</p><p>The cut was to the low 50 and ties. Carner was inside the cut line Friday until running out of gas with two double bogeys in a 43 on the back nine. She shot 83, missing the cut by four shots.</p><p>“I'm very tired,” Carner said. “I never really got the rhythm of the swing today. I drove it not well today, and I've been driving it good. So you're starting on the wrong foot. And then hit a couple good irons, but basically the whole swing was a little off.”</p><p>Carner was asked if she would be competing again anytime soon.</p><p>“I might retire for 10 months,” she cracked.</p><p>She will be resting up for a return to next year’s U.S. Senior Women’s Open at Pine Needles in North Carolina.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=49><div data-reactid=53><div data-reactid=61><div data-reactid=62></div><div data-reactid=77></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=95><section data-reactid=96><section data-reactid=115><div data-reactid=116><p data-reactid=127><article data-reactid=128><p>SILVIS, Illinois - Michael Kim took a four-shot lead Friday at the John Deere Classic in the Quad Cities, which was suspended twice because of weather concerns.</p><p>Kim, who is winless in 84 career PGA Tour starts, was 16 under through 35 holes, with the second round to be completed Saturday morning.</p><p>Kim birdied eight of his first 14 holes without a bogey to race past first-round leader Steve Wheatcroft, who shot 68. Wheatcroft was 12 under along with David Hearn (64) and Johnson Wagner (66).</p><p>Francesco Molinari, who won the Quicken Loans National two weeks ago, was 11 under along with Matt Jones and Bronson Burgoon, who made two eagles on Friday and was 8 under for the round with three holes to play.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=141><div data-reactid=145><div data-reactid=153><div data-reactid=154></div><div data-reactid=169></div></div></div></section></p><p data-reactid=184><section data-reactid=185><section data-reactid=186><div data-reactid=196><h1 data-reactid=197>Davies co-leads U.S. Senior Women's; Inkster 3 back</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=204><div data-reactid=205><p data-reactid=216><article data-reactid=217><p>WHEATON, Ill. - British golfers Laura Davies and Trish Johnson recovered from rough stretches on Friday after two rounds of the inaugural U.S. Senior Women's Open. Both stand at 4-under par 142 through 36 holes.</p><p>Johnson had an eagle on the par-5 fourth hole to cap a comeback, after starting on the back nine and slipping to even par for the round. She finished with a 2-under 71 in the sweltering heat at Chicago Golf Club.</p><p>Davies struggled early on the back nine with a double bogey at 11, and fell to even-par overall before four birdies in six holes put her back at the top of the leaderboard.</p><p>Juli Inkster is third at 1-under 145 after a 71. Danielle Ammaccapane fought back with a 71 after a rough first round and trails by four shots.</p><p>First-round leader Elaine Crosby trails by six strokes after shooting a 5-over 78.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=233><div data-reactid=237><div data-reactid=245><div data-reactid=246></div><div data-reactid=261></div></div></div></section></p><div data-reactid=276><section data-reactid=277><section data-reactid=278><div data-reactid=288><h1 data-reactid=289>Hearn questioned about his stroke, then cleared</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=296><div data-reactid=297><p data-reactid=308><article data-reactid=309><p>David Hearn wasn’t surprised when PGA Tour rules officials summoned him after he posted a 7-under-par 64 Friday at the John Deere Classic to quiz him about his putting stroke.</p><p>After he moved into contention, they had questions about his technique with his long putter, about how close he may be getting to anchoring his upper hand against his chest, which would be a violation of the Rules of Golf.</p><p>Hearn apparently satisfactorily demonstrated that he doesn’t anchor, because his score stood.</p><p>“I guess I'm putting too well,” Hearn told reporters after his round. “No, honestly, it's to be expected. There is a lot of opinions out there about the anchoring rules and what not. They were asking me about the way that I'm doing it, and I can say with certainty that I'm not anchoring the putter.”</p><p>Hearn leans over his long putter, with his left hand at the top of the putter, near his chest. With a baggy shirt, it can be difficult to discern how close he gets to his chest.</p><p>Hearn was 27th in strokes gained putting on Tour using an anchored stroke in 2015, the last year that anchoring was allowed. He was 163rd in strokes gained putting coming into this week, but he has been hot with the putter at the John Deere. He rolled in 117 feet of putts on Thursday and 113 on Friday. He was ranked fifth in strokes gained putting at TPC Deere Run this week, with some rounds still to be completed late Friday afternoon.</p><p>“I can say with 100 percent confidence there isn't a single putt that I've hit that's anchored,” Hearn said. “They had to ask and do their due diligence, and that's fine. I know there's always going to be questions with it, but I'm not doing anything wrong.”</p><p>Hearn said he has tried different techniques since the ban was instituted, including Matt Kuchar’s arm brace, but he is back to the left hand at the top of the putter.</p><p>“Going back to it, I made some physical changes,” Hearn said. “I've taken length off the putter. It has taken me time to get better at it, but there is no reason that I can't be even 95 or 99 percent good as I used to be with it, not attached to my body.”</p><p>Hearn, 39, is seeking his first PGA Tour title. He tied for second at the John Deere Classic five years ago.</p><p>“I think I just have good feelings around this golf course,” Hearn said.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=322><div data-reactid=326><div data-reactid=334><div data-reactid=335></div><div data-reactid=350></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=368><section data-reactid=369><section data-reactid=370><div data-reactid=380><h1 data-reactid=381>Henderson takes 36-hole co-lead into weekend</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=388><div data-reactid=389><p data-reactid=400><article data-reactid=401><p>Brooke Henderson is tough to beat with the lead on a weekend.</p><p>She’s right where she wants to be after closing with a pair of birdies Friday to take a share of the lead halfway through the LPGA’s Marathon Classic on the outskirts of Toledo, Ohio.</p><p>With a bogey-free round of 5-under-par 66, Henderson is tied with Caroline Hedwall (67) at 9 under overall.</p><p>They are one shot ahead of Thailand’s Thidapa Suwannapura (69) and two ahead of In Gee Chun (69), Emma Talley (67) and Jacqui Concolino (69).</p><p>Brittany Lincicome (68), I.K. Kim (70) and Christina Kim (69) are among players three back.</p><p>Former world No. 1 Yani Tseng is five shots back after a 72.</p><p>Henderson, 20, has claimed six LPGA titles. She led or shared the lead through 36 holes in five of them.</p><p>“It's fun to see your name at the top, and, hopefully, I can just continue to give myself a lot of birdie opportunities out here over the weekend,” Henderson said.</p><p>Henderson is looking to win her second LPGA title this season. She won the Lotte Championship in April. She was sharp with her iron play Friday, hitting every green in regulation but one.</p><p>Henderson will go off in the final pairing Saturday with Hedwall, a five-time Ladies European Tour winner who has struggled to make her mark on the LPGA after making a name for herself among Americans with her Solheim Cup performances. She helping Europe defeat the United States in the 2011 and ’13 Solheim Cups. She was 5-0 in the European rout in Colorado in ’13.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=414><div data-reactid=418><div data-reactid=426><div data-reactid=427></div><div data-reactid=442></div></div></div></section></p></div></div>