---
ID: 14903
post_title: >
  RBC Canadian Open to Precede U.S. Open
  in 2019
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/07/11/rbc-canadian-open-to-precede-u-s-open-in-2019/
published: true
post_date: 2018-07-11 21:05:17
---
<div><div data-reactroot data-reactid=1 data-react-checksum=425025038><div data-reactid=3><section data-reactid=4><section data-reactid=5><div data-reactid=15><h1 data-reactid=16>RBC Canadian Open to precede U.S. Open in 2019</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=23><div data-reactid=24><p data-reactid=35><article data-reactid=36><p>Another piece of the PGA Tour's scheduling puzzle fell into place Tuesday when the RBC Canadian Open announced that it would move to the week before the U.S. Open beginning in 2019.</p><p>The Canadian Open has spent the past few years sandwiched between The Open and the PGA Championship in a busy part of the summer schedule, but with several event dates moving around next year the historic tournament is poised for an upgrade. It will be played June 6-9 next summer as it returns to Hamilton Golf and Country Club in Ontario for the first time since 2012.</p><p>As part of the announcement, it was revealed that the tournament will increase its purse from $6.4 million this year to $7.6 million next year. It will also precede the U.S. Open through at least 2023, when it again returns to Hamilton.</p><blockquote data-lang=en>— RBC (@RBC) <a href="https://twitter.com/RBC/status/1014166922718535683?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 3, 2018</a></blockquote><p>The pre-U.S. Open spot on the schedule was previously held by the FedEx St. Jude Classic, but the Memphis stop is becoming a WGC event next year and will move to after The Open next summer. The move means that Canada's only PGA Tour event will now fall the week after the Memorial, with the two Dallas-area events on either side of the PGA Championship as it shifts to May.</p><p>It also means that the Tour's two new stops in Detroit and Minnesota will likely fall into the window between the U.S. Open and The Open next summer. The Tour is expected to announce a full schedule for the 2018-19 season in the next couple weeks.</p><p>Jhonattan Vegas is the two-time defending champ of the RBC Canadian Open, having won each of the last two years at Glen Abbey, which will again serve as tournament host later this month.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=46><div data-reactid=50><div data-reactid=58><div data-reactid=59></div><div data-reactid=74></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=92><section data-reactid=93><section data-reactid=112><div data-reactid=113><p data-reactid=124><article data-reactid=125><p>After spending more than a decade analyzing the professional game behind a camera, Brandel Chamblee is ready to get back inside the ropes.</p><p>As part of a recent Golf Channel podcast with host Will Gray, Chamblee expanded on his plans to try to qualify for the upcoming Senior Open Championship, which is being held at the Old Course at St. Andrews for the first time.</p><p>Chamblee will be in Scotland as part of Golf Channel's coverage of The Open at Carnoustie, and on Monday, July 23 - the day after someone hoists the claret jug - he'll take his shot in an 18-hole qualifier to earn one of a handful of spots available. While the R&amp;A will conduct four different qualifiers on that day, Chamblee has signed up to play Scotscraig, the same course where he qualified for the 1995 Open at St. Andrews.</p><p>"My game's pretty good. When I've played, I've played some really good golf," Chamblee said. "I'm looking forward to it for a lot of different reasons. I want to try to get back into competitive golf, and I would love to have another week at St. Andrews."</p><p>Chamblee missed the cut at the Old Course in 1995, one of three Open Championship appearances he made in his career. His T-62 finish at Royal Lytham in 2001 marked his most recent appearance in a major.</p><p>Chamblee plans to get in some early practice in Scotland ahead of Open week at Carnoustie, including a round on the Old Course next week with his wife, "Morning Drive" host Bailey Mosier. Should Chamblee qualify for a start on the over-50 circuit, he left open the possibility that his wife might make an appearance as a caddie.</p><p>"It's kind of up to her, really. But if she really wants to caddie, she can certainly do it," Chamblee said. "But just imagine the winds blowing 30 mph, imagine it raining, imagine it being cold. You've got rain suits and umbrellas and towels, you know, and it's really not that much fun."</p><p>Chamblee's Open aspirations were only part of his recent podcast appearance, where he also discussed Tiger Woods' T-4 finish at the Quicken Loans National, Justin Thomas' decision to get a Ryder Cup preview, Jordan Spieth's recent struggles and Phil Mickelson's return to competition this week at The Greenbrier following his U.S. Open rules fiasco.</p><p>Click above for the full episode, and <a href=https://www.golfchannel.com/podcast>click here</a> to subscribe for future installments.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=138><div data-reactid=142><div data-reactid=150><div data-reactid=151></div><div data-reactid=166></div></div></div></section></p><p data-reactid=181><section data-reactid=182><section data-reactid=183><div data-reactid=196><h1 data-reactid=197>Stock Watch: Park's gain is Ryu's loss</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=204><div data-reactid=205><p data-reactid=216><article data-reactid=217><p><em>Each week on GolfChannel.com, we’ll examine which players’ stocks and trends are rising and falling in the world of golf.</em></p><p><strong>Francesco Molinari (+9%):</strong> It was one of the most dominant ball-striking weeks of the ShotLink era, as Molinari striped his way around a difficult track on his way to trouncing a weak field at Tiger’s event.</p><p><strong>Sung Hyun Park (+7%):</strong> The big-time South Korean talent took advantage of So Yeon Ryu’s late stumbles and cashed in for her second major title. The waterworks afterward seemed more relief than joy.</p><p><strong>Alex Noren (+5%):</strong> The French Open reinforced that this guy is going to do unspeakable things to the Americans at the Ryder Cup. Like Molinari, his fairways-and-greens game is perfect for Le Golf National.</p><p><strong>T.J. Vogel (+4%):</strong> With a few more regular-season opportunities available, he has already passed Patrick Reed’s legendary 2012 by earning his SEVENTH Monday qualifier spot of the season. It’s a massive step from one-day shootout to 72-hole contender, but this is a crazy accomplishment.</p><p><strong>Tiger (+2%):</strong> He has more top-5s this season than Jordan Spieth, and he’s almost assured of reaching the third leg of the FedExCup playoffs. His diehards get frustrated if he doesn’t win, but this is so fun – and unexpected.</p><p><strong>Julian Suri (-1%):</strong> With a chance to issue the first salvo at the future Ryder Cup venue, the American instead double-bogeyed the 71st hole and lost by a shot.</p><p><strong>So Yeon Ryu (-2%):</strong> She squandered the lead not one but twice in the final round of the KPMG Women’s PGA. That’s even more crushing.</p><p><strong>John Daly (-3%):</strong> Guess his woe-is-me knee injury isn’t as severe as he suggested. He’s playing The Greenbrier this week – without a cart.</p><p><strong>American advantage (-6%):</strong> Justin Thomas described Le Golf National this way: “It’s just a hard golf course. It’s very narrow.” Not every U.S. player is a bomb-and-gouger, of course, but that course description doesn’t appear to favor any American.</p><p><strong>Sung Kang (-8%):</strong> You can bet Kang’s future playing partners will keep a closer eye on his movements after his questionable drop at Quicken Loans drew the attention of Joel Dahmen. The Tour cleared Kang, but only because there wasn’t any “clear evidence” otherwise. Yikes. </p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=248><div data-reactid=252><div data-reactid=260><div data-reactid=261></div><div data-reactid=276></div></div></div></section></p><div data-reactid=291><section data-reactid=292><section data-reactid=293><div data-reactid=303><h1 data-reactid=304>Vogel Monday qualifies for seventh time this season</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=311><div data-reactid=312><p data-reactid=323><article data-reactid=324><p>Patrick Reed officially has some company among the most successful navigators of one of professional golf's most pressure-packed gauntlets.</p><p>Monday qualifying is not for the faint of heart, with a full field of pros usually fighting over four spots in the upcoming week's PGA Tour event. But T.J. Vogel is apparently immune to the pressures of the Monday cauldron, as he shot a 65 to take medalist honors for this week's qualifier as the Tour makes its annual stop at The Greenbrier.</p><p>While one single performance deserves applause, this is now the seventh time this season that Vogel, who has limited Web.com Tour status, has Monday qualified for a PGA Tour event. That's one more than Reed's six-pack of successful qualifications that earned him the nickname "Mr. Monday" as he began his pro career back in 2012.</p><p>Vogel, 27,  has made the cut in three of his six prior starts, topping out with a T-16 finish at the Valspar Championship. He also played the weekend at the Wells Fargo Championship (T-59) and AT&amp;T Byron Nelson (T-66), missing the cut at the RSM Classic, Honda Classic and FedEx St. Jude Classic.</p><p>Vogel's successful qualifying rounds have included two 66s, two 65s, two 64s and a 63.</p><p>Vogel didn't make it out of local qualifying for the U.S. Open, and he missed the cut each of the last two weeks at Web.com events. But he apparently saves his best golf for Monday, and now he'll have another chance among the foothills of West Virginia against a watered-down field that includes only eight of the top 50 players in the world rankings.</p><p>With a lack of status limiting his options this summer, Vogel hopes to lock up status for 2019 by earning a spot in Web.com Tour Finals this fall. To do so, he'll need to earn as a non-member the equivalent of No. 200 or better in season-long points after the Wyndham Championship next month.</p><p>Vogel has already accumulated 51 points this season as a non-member. Last season Padraig Harrington finished No. 200 with 82 points.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=334><div data-reactid=338><div data-reactid=346><div data-reactid=347></div><div data-reactid=362></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=380><section data-reactid=381><section data-reactid=382><div data-reactid=395><h1 data-reactid=396>McDowell loses clubs on eve of Open qualifier</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=403><div data-reactid=404><p data-reactid=415><article data-reactid=416> With his clubs yet to be found, McDowell posted to Twitter that he has officially withdrawn from Tuesday's qualifier in England: <blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>I have officially withdrawn from <a href="https://twitter.com/TheOpen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@TheOpen</a> qualifying tomorrow at St Anne’s Old Links. I cannot give 100% without my own equipment which has been mishandled by <a href="https://twitter.com/airfrance?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AirFrance</a> and must turn my attention to <a href="https://twitter.com/DDFIrishOpen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@DDFIrishOpen</a> this weekend. Thanks for all the support.</p>— Graeme McDowell (@Graeme_McDowell) <a href="https://twitter.com/Graeme_McDowell/status/1013897732673753089?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 2, 2018</a></blockquote><p>Graeme McDowell can't find his golf clubs, and the issue may cost him a chance to qualify for The Open this week.</p><p>McDowell hopped a short flight from France to England following a T-37 finish at the HNA French Open, with plans to tee it up in final Open qualifying at St. Annes Old Links on Tuesday. While the Ulsterman landed in Manchester safe and sound, his clubs were nowhere to be found:</p><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Need assistance from <a href="https://twitter.com/airfrance?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@airfrance</a>. Flew into Manchester last night from CDG and my golf clubs are untraceable. I have a 36 qualifier tomorrow for <a href="https://twitter.com/TheOpen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@TheOpen</a> and really need my bag. Thanks in advance. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/help?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#help</a></p>— Graeme McDowell (@Graeme_McDowell) <a href="https://twitter.com/Graeme_McDowell/status/1013717548716711936?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 2, 2018</a></blockquote><p>There will be four separate, 36-hole Open qualifiers held simultaneously Tuesday, with the top three players from St. Annes, Notts Hollinwell, Prince's and The Renaissance Club all earning spots at Carnoustie in two weeks. McDowell had planned to try his hand at qualifying before heading to Ballyliffin where he'll play in this week's Dubai Duty Free Irish Open.</p><p>But as the search for his clubs extended into the evening hours Monday in Europe, McDowell seemed resigned to the fact that he would have to skip the qualifier and focus his attention on this week's Rolex Series event on the European Tour, where the top three players not otherwise exempt will also earn spots in The Open:</p><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Clubs still not on way from Paris. Established that they are in the black hole known as CDG. <a href="https://twitter.com/airfrance?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@airfrance</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/AirFranceUK?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@AirFranceUK</a> have been very quiet on Twitter lately so no communication. Looking doubtful I will participate tomorrow <a href="https://twitter.com/TheOpen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@TheOpen</a> qualifier.</p>— Graeme McDowell (@Graeme_McDowell) <a href="https://twitter.com/Graeme_McDowell/status/1013835219256987649?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 2, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>I hear you man. Only 3 spots from 72 decent players and I have another event to get ready for this week, so have to cut my losses and start preparing. <a href=https://t.co/L49rE58pQh>https://t.co/L49rE58pQh</a></p>— Graeme McDowell (@Graeme_McDowell) <a href="https://twitter.com/Graeme_McDowell/status/1013836274543808512?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 2, 2018</a></blockquote><blockquote data-lang=en><p lang=en dir=ltr>Sent this guy <a href="https://twitter.com/Jmjanaillac?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Jmjanaillac</a> an email this morning, who I believe is the <a href="https://twitter.com/airfrance?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@airfrance</a> CEO but got the cream pie. Maybe not a golfer. Frustrating one. Have to start switching my brain to <a href="https://twitter.com/DDFIrishOpen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@DDFIrishOpen</a>. <a href="https://twitter.com/TheOpen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@TheOpen</a> spots there also. Still need clubs!!!</p>— Graeme McDowell (@Graeme_McDowell) <a href="https://twitter.com/Graeme_McDowell/status/1013837607262998528?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">July 2, 2018</a></blockquote><p>McDowell won the 2010 U.S. Open, but he is currently ranked No. 175 in the world and his PGA Tour exemption for winning the 2015 OHL Classic at Mayakoba expires next month. Last year he missed The Open for the first time since 2003.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=432><div data-reactid=436><div data-reactid=444><div data-reactid=445></div><div data-reactid=460></div></div></div></section></p></div></div>