---
ID: 15044
post_title: >
  Padraig Harrington Says Fiery Carnoustie
  Evokes Hoylake in 2006
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/07/18/padraig-harrington-says-fiery-carnoustie-evokes-hoylake-in-2006/
published: true
post_date: 2018-07-18 09:13:10
---
<div><div data-reactroot data-reactid=1 data-react-checksum=1364508451><div data-reactid=3><section data-reactid=4><section data-reactid=5><div data-reactid=18><h1 data-reactid=19>Harrington: Fiery Carnoustie evokes Hoylake in '06</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=26><div data-reactid=27><p data-reactid=38><article data-reactid=39><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – One course came to mind when Padraig Harrington arrived on property and saw a firm, fast and yellow Carnoustie.</p><p>That's when Tiger Woods avoided every bunker, bludgeoned the links with mid-irons and captured the last of his three Open titles.</p><p>So Harrington was asked: Given the similarity in firmness between Carnoustie and Hoylake, can Tiger stir the ghosts this week?</p><p>“I really don’t know,” Harrington said Monday. “He’s good enough to win this championship, no doubt about it. I don’t think he could play golf like the way he did in 2006. Nobody else could have tried to play the golf course the way he did, and nobody else could have played the way he did. I suspect he couldn’t play that way now, either. But I don’t know if that’s the strategy this week, to lay up that far back.”</p><p>With three days until the start of this championship, that’s the biggest question mark for Harrington, the 2007 winner here. He doesn’t know what his strategy will be – but his game plan will need to be “fluid.” Do you attack the course with driver and try to fly the fairway bunkers? Or do you attempt to lay back with an iron, even though it’s difficult to control the amount of run-out on the baked-out fairways and bring the bunkers into play?</p><p>“The fairways at Hoylake are quite flat, even though they were very fast,” Harrington said. “There’s a lot of undulations in the fairways here, so if you are trying to lay up, you can get hit the back of a slope and kick forward an extra 20 or 30 yards more than you think. So it’s not as easy to eliminate all the risk by laying up.”</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=67><div data-reactid=71><div data-reactid=79><div data-reactid=80></div><div data-reactid=95></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=113><section data-reactid=114><section data-reactid=115><div data-reactid=128><h1 data-reactid=129>Spieth takes familiar break ahead of Open defense</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=136><div data-reactid=137><p data-reactid=148><article data-reactid=149><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – As his title chances seemed to be slipping away during the final round of last year’s Open Championship, Jordan Spieth’s caddie took a moment to remind him who he was.</p><p>Following a bogey at No. 13, Michael Greller referenced a recent vacation he’d taken to Mexico where he’d spent time with Michael Phelps and Michael Jordan and why he deserved to be among that group of singular athletes.</p><p>Spieth, who won last year’s Open, decided to continue the tradition, spending time in Cabo again before this week’s championship.</p><p>“I kind of went through the same schedule,” Spieth said on Monday at Carnoustie. “It was nice to have a little vacation.”</p><p>Spieth hasn’t played since the Travelers Championship; instead he attended the Special Olympics USA Games earlier this month in Seattle with his sister. It was Spieth’s first time back to the Pacific Northwest since he won the 2015 U.S. Open.</p><p>“I went out to Chambers Bay with [Greller],” Spieth said. “We kind of walked down the 18<sup>th</sup> hole. It was cool reliving those memories.”</p><p>But most of all Spieth said he needed a break after a particularly tough season.</p><p>“I had the itch to get back to it after a couple weeks of not really working,” he said. “It was nice to kind of have that itch to get back.”</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=162><div data-reactid=166><div data-reactid=174><div data-reactid=175></div><div data-reactid=190></div></div></div></section></p><p data-reactid=205><section data-reactid=206><section data-reactid=207><div data-reactid=220><h1 data-reactid=221>How will players game-plan for Carnoustie?</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=228><div data-reactid=229><p data-reactid=240><article data-reactid=241><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – Justin Thomas took a familiar slash with his driver on the 18<sup>th</sup> tee on Monday at Carnoustie and watched anxiously as his golf ball bounced and bounded down the fairway.</p><p>Unlike the two previous editions of The Open, at what is widely considered the rota’s most demanding test, a particularly warm and dry summer has left Carnoustie a parched shade of yellow and players like Thomas searching for answers.</p><p>Under the best circumstances, Carnoustie is every bit the unforgiving participant. But this week promises to be something altogether different, with players already dumbfounded by how far the ball is chasing down fairways and over greens.</p><p>Brown is beautiful here at Royal Dark &amp; Dusty.</p><p>But then it’s also proving to be something of a unique test.</p><p>Where most practice rounds at The Open are spent trying to figure out what lines are best off tees, this is more a study of lesser evils.</p><p>Tee shots, like at the par-4 17<sup>th</sup> hole, ask multiple questions with few answers. On his first attempt, Thomas hit 2-iron off the tee at No. 17. It cleared the Barry Burn and bounded down the middle of the fairway. Perfect, right? Not this year at Carnoustie, as Thomas’ tee shot kept rolling until it reached the same burn, which twists and turns through both the 17<sup>th</sup> and 18<sup>th</sup> fairways, at a farther intersection.</p><p>“A hole like 17 in this wind, the trick is getting a club that will carry [the burn],” said Thomas, who played 18 holes on Monday with Tiger Woods. “If that hole gets downwind you can have a hard time carrying the burn and keeping it short of the other burn. It’s pretty bizarre.”</p><p>The sixth hole can offer a similar dilemma, with players needing to carry their tee shots 275 yards to avoid a pair of pot bunkers down the right side of the fairway. Yet just 26 yards past those pitfalls looms a second set of bunkers. Even for the game’s best, trying to weave a fairway wood or long-iron into a 26-yard window can be challenging.</p><p>“Six is a really hard hole, it really just depends on how you want to play it. If you want to take everything on and have a chance of hitting an iron into a par 5, or just kind of lay back and play it as a three-shot hole,” Thomas shrugged.</p><p>It’s difficult to quantify precisely how short the 7,400-yard layout is playing. It’s not so far players are flying the ball in the air, particularly with relatively little wind in the forecast the rest of the week, so much as it is a question of how a particular shot will run out after it’s made contact with the firm turf.</p><p>As the field began to get their first taste of the bouncy fun, one of the earliest indications something was askew came on Sunday when Padraig Harrington, who won The Open the last time it was played at Carnoustie in 2007, announced to the social world that he’d hit into the burn on the 18<sup>th</sup> hole.</p><p>“This time it was the one at the green, 457 yards away,” the Irishman tweeted. “The fairways are a tad fast.”</p><p>Most players have already resigned themselves to a steady diet of mid-irons off tees this week in an attempt to at least partially control the amount of run-out each shot will have.</p><p>Jordan Spieth, the defending champion, hadn’t played a practice round prior to his media session, but could tell what’s in store just from his abbreviated range session on Monday. “Extremely baked out,” he said.</p><p>The conditions have already led Spieth and his caddie, Micheal Greller, to conjure up a tentative game plan.</p><p>“You might wear out your 5- and 4-irons off the tee instead of hitting 3- or 2-irons like you’re used to,” Greller told him.</p><p>But even that might not be the answer, as Tommy Fleetwood discovered on Sunday during a practice round. Fleetwood has a unique connection with Carnoustie having shot the course record (63) during last year’s Dunhill Links Championship.</p><p>The Englishman doesn’t expect his record to be in danger this week.</p><p>In fact, he explained the dramatically different conditions were evident on the third hole on Sunday.</p><p>“There’s holes that have been nothing tee shots, like the third. If you play that in the middle of September or October [when the Dunhill is played] and it’s green and soft, you could just hit a mid-iron down the fairway and knock it on with a wedge,” Fleetwood said. “Yesterday it was playing so firm, the fairways really undulate and you have bunkers on either side, it’s actually all of a sudden a tough tee shot.”</p><p>The alternative to the iron game plan off the tee would be to simply hit driver, an option at least one long-hitter is considering this week if his practice round was any indication.</p><p>On Sunday, Jon Rahm played aggressively off each tee, taking the ubiquitous fairway bunkers out of play but at the same time tempting fate with each fairway ringed by fescue rough, which is relatively tame given the dry conditions. But even that option has consequences.</p><p>“It’s kind of strange where there’s not really a number that you know you’re going to be short,” said Fleetwood, who played his Sunday practice round with Rahm. “[Rahm] hit a drive on 15 that was like 400 yards. You just can’t account for that kind of stuff.”</p><p>Whatever tactic players choose, this Open Championship promises to be a much different test than what players have become accustomed to at Carnoustie.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=260><div data-reactid=264><div data-reactid=272><div data-reactid=273></div><div data-reactid=288></div></div></div></section></p><div data-reactid=303><section data-reactid=304><section data-reactid=305><div data-reactid=318><h1 data-reactid=319>Fleetwood: Carnoustie course record won't help at Open</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=326><div data-reactid=327><p data-reactid=338><article data-reactid=339><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – Tommy Fleetwood holds the competitive course record at Carnoustie, but he’s skeptical that his past experience will help him at The Open.</p><p>Last fall, in the European Tour’s Dunhill Links Championship, Fleetwood birdied six of his last eight holes to card a bogey-free, 9-under 63, the lowest score ever at what is widely considered to be the most difficult course in the Open rota.</p><p>No one expects a repeat this week at Carnoustie – not with the conditions this brown, firm and fast.</p><p>“It’s a completely different course,” Fleetwood said Monday. “Shots that you’ve hit have literally no relevance for a lot of it.</p><p>“It doesn’t do any harm to have played it for a few years. It doesn’t do any harm to have a course record, but it’s a completely different challenge to what we normally face.”</p><p>Fleetwood took a much-needed two-week break after the French Open, deciding to withdraw from last week’s Scottish Open for a bit more time in his own bed. (He said it was his last full week at home until mid-October.) Since his sparkling 63 to nearly steal the U.S. Open, the Englishman said that he’d “run out of steam” but now feels energized.  </p><p>“There’s not really a good reason why I couldn’t do it (this week),” he said. “It really doesn’t matter what’s happened in the past. The only thing they could do is build your confidence and give you examples of what you can do – examples that you can end up there, and you have the game to compete.”</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=361><div data-reactid=365><div data-reactid=373><div data-reactid=374></div><div data-reactid=389></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=407><section data-reactid=408><section data-reactid=427><div data-reactid=428><p data-reactid=439><article data-reactid=440><p align=center><strong><em>Five Past “</em></strong><strong>Champion Golfers of The Year” <em>Highlight Broadcast Team <br></em></strong></p><p align=center><strong><em>Technology Enhancements: Links-Optimized Toptracer, Wind Gauges and Bunker Cams, Including “Johnny Miller Bunker” Along 18th Fairway</em></strong></p><p>NBC Sports Group’s all-encompassing coverage from The 147<sup>TH</sup> Open kicked off today with <em>Golf Central Live From The Open</em>, which throughout the week will deliver nearly 50 hours of news and analysis on Golf Channel from Carnoustie Golf Links on the east coast of Scotland. The network’s Emmy-nominated tournament coverage will feature another 50 live hours being broadcast on linear television (Golf Channel, NBC), spanning from the opening tee shot at 1:30 a.m. ET on Thursday through the final putt on Sunday. An additional 170 complementary hours of streaming coverage will include featured holes and groups, bringing NBC Sports’ overall production to more than 350 total hours surrounding The Open.</p><p>“The Open is unique. Golf’s original championship isn’t just steeped in nearly 150 years of tradition; it features a multitude of storylines that fuel our comprehensive coverage plan,” said Mike McCarley, president, Golf, NBC Sports Group. “Fans look forward to the best players in the world conquering nature’s elements – this year at iconic Carnoustie Golf Links – in their quest to become the Champion Golfer of the Year. Our extensive approach utilizes a deep roster of commentators to set the stage leading up to our unprecedented coverage from the first tee shot early Thursday morning through the last putt on Sunday evening.”</p><p>Led by the deepest and most-experienced roster of analysts, hosts, reporters and personalities in the game, coverage will set the scene for golf fans with a focus on key storylines and showcase the unique traditions synonymous with golf’s original championship, culminating in the winner being awarded the iconic Claret Jug and introduced as the Champion Golfer of the Year.</p><p><strong>“CHAMPION GOLFERS OF THE YEAR” HEADLINE BROADCAST TEAM:</strong></p><p>NBC Sports’ live tournament and news coverage will utilize several past “Champion Golfers of the Year,” including NBC Sports’ lead analyst Johnny Miller (1976), as well as Nick Faldo (1987, ’90, ’92) and Justin Leonard (1997). David Duval (2001) and Tom Lehman (1996) are in the field as past champions, and also are scheduled to contribute to coverage. *Full broadcast teams outlined below*</p><p><strong>THE MOST LIVE COVERAGE FROM ANY GOLF EVENT:</strong> NBC Sports’ 50 hours of live tournament coverage will utilize more than 100 available cameras and employ several technology enhancements to showcase Carnoustie’s distinct characteristics:</p><ul><li><strong>“Links Toptracer”</strong>: A reverse ball flight configuration optimized for links golf will showcase not only where shots land, but also – given players’ strategic use of the ground in links golf – “Links Toptracer” will track how shots roll out.</li><li><strong>“Bunker Cam”:</strong> Coverage will feature NBC Sports’ popular “bunker cam” technology in a total of eight bunkers on Holes 5, 8, 12, 13 and 18, including in several of Carnoustie’s challenging pot bunkers. For the first time, the network will use the embedded camera technology in the face of fairway bunkers (Holes 12 &amp; 18), including the “Johnny Miller bunker,” positioned along the right side of the fairway on the par-4 18th hole. The bunker is named in his honor after it took him two shots to get out of it during The Open in 1975.</li><li><strong>Influence of Wind</strong>: Wind indicators will be utilized around the course to measure changes in wind conditions in real-time, providing immediate ultra-precise data so viewers can easily distinguish what a player is facing over a given shot.</li><li><strong>“Playing Through” Returns; Callaway to Feature Custom Creative Content:</strong> Enhancing both the viewership and commercial experience, NBC Sports’ popular “Playing Through” split-screen commercial format returns for The Open, ensuring viewers don’t miss key stretches of the action during commercial breaks. For the first time at The Open, Callaway has produced an innovative “Playing Through” 30-second spot featuring 2013 Open champion Phil Mickelson. During NBC Sports’ coverage of The Open at Royal Birkdale last year, an additional 200 shots of live golf were shown via “Playing Through.”</li></ul><p><strong>MORE THAN 170 HOURS OF COMPLEMENTARY LIVE STREAMING COVERAGE: </strong>Complementing traditional linear broadcast coverage, NBC Sports will showcase more than 170 hours of live tournament feeds being streamed across NBC Sports Digital platforms and <a href=http://www.TheOpen.com>TheOpen.com</a>. These feeds also will be available as part of DirecTV’s featured mosaic coverage of The Open. The four feeds will include a simulcast of tournament coverage; a “Marquee Group,” for both the morning and afternoon waves of competition; a “3-Hole Channel,” featuring tournament play on Holes 8, 9 and 10; and “Spotlight,” (also available in 4K) showcasing competition taking place on Holes 1 and 18, along with competitor interviews on the range and inside the press center.</p><p><strong>Additional Highlights Surrounding NBC Sports’ Coverage of The 147<sup>TH </sup>Open: </strong></p><ul><li><strong>NBC News’ Dylan Dreyer to Contribute from Carnoustie: </strong>Golf enthusiast Dylan Dreyer of NBC News’ <em>TODAY </em>will offer contributions from on-site at Carnoustie. Given the extensive influence weather tends to have on The Open, Dreyer’s experience as a weather anchor and a golf fan will provide a unique perspective.</li><li><strong>NBC Universo Airing Simulcast of The Open: </strong>NBC Universo will deliver live Spanish-language coverage of the third and final rounds of The Open, Saturday and Sunday, July 21-22. Third round coverage will air live from 1-3 p.m. ET on Saturday, and final round coverage will air live from Noon-2 p.m. ET on Sunday. Coverage will be led by play-by-play host Miguel Gurwitz alongside analyst Edgar Lopez.</li></ul><table cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 border=1><tbody><tr><td width=224 valign=top><p><strong>NBC Sports Live Tournament Broadcast Team</strong></p></td><td width=510 valign=top><p>Tom Abbott, Notah Begay, Billy Ray Brown, Curt Byrum, Nick Faldo, David Feherty, Jerry Foltz, Terry Gannon, Dan Hicks, Peter Jacobsen, Gary Koch, Justin Leonard, Todd Lewis, Jim “Bones” Mackay, Roger Maltbie, Johnny Miller, Frank Nobilo, Jimmy Roberts, Mark Rolfing, Tim Rosaforte, Steve Sands, Mike Tirico</p></td></tr><tr><td width=224 valign=top><p><strong><em>Golf Central Live From The Open </em></strong><strong>Broadcast Team</strong></p></td><td width=510 valign=top><p>Cara Banks, Notah Begay, Steve Burkowski, Brandel Chamblee, Jaime Diaz, Rex Hoggard, Trevor Immelman, Justin Leonard, Rich Lerner, Todd Lewis, Frank Nobilo, Mark Rolfing, Tim Rosaforte, Ken Schofield</p></td></tr><tr><td width=510 valign=top><p>John Cook and Damon Hack on-site at Carnoustie</p></td></tr><tr><td width=224 valign=top><p><strong><em>Complementary Streaming Coverage </em></strong><strong>Broadcast Team</strong></p></td><td width=510 valign=top><p>Tom Abbott, Cara Banks, Steve Burkowski, Ryan Burr, Curt Byrum, John Cook, Damon Hack, Trevor Immelman, Justin Leonard</p></td></tr><tr><td width=224 valign=top><p><strong><em>NBC Universo </em></strong><strong>Broadcast Team</strong></p></td><td width=510 valign=top><p>Miguel Gurwitz, Edgar Lopez</p></td></tr><tr><td width=510 valign=top><p>Mercer Baggs, Jay Coffin, Rex Hoggard, Ryan Lavner, Bailey Mosier, Ryan Reiterman, Brandon Tucker</p></td></tr><tr><td width=224 valign=top><p><strong><em>Social Media Contributors</em></strong></p></td><td width=510 valign=top><p>Vernon Kay, Conor Moore, Alexandra O’Laughlin</p></td></tr></tbody></table></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=443><div data-reactid=447><div data-reactid=455><div data-reactid=456></div><div data-reactid=471></div></div></div></section></p></div></div>