---
ID: 15154
post_title: '2018 British Open: Final-round tee times at Carnoustie'
author: admin
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/07/26/2018-british-open-final-round-tee-times-at-carnoustie/
published: true
post_date: 2018-07-26 12:12:39
---
<div><div data-reactroot data-reactid=1 data-react-checksum=-2143089678><div data-reactid=3><section data-reactid=4><section data-reactid=26><div data-reactid=27><p data-reactid=38><article data-reactid=39><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – Jordan Spieth begins his quest for a second consecutive claret jug and fourth major overall at 9:45 a.m. ET Sunday at Carnoustie, playing alongside Xander Schauffele. This marks the first time Schauffele has ever held a 54-hole lead in his career.</p><p>The Kevins – Kisner and Chappell – are in the penultimate group, 10 minutes earlier at 9:35 a.m. Kisner is tied with Spieth and Schauffele at 9 under par. Chappell is two shots back at 7 under.</p><p>But it’s the next group that has people interested the most. Tiger Woods is paired with Francesco Molinari at 9:25 a.m. Woods, in search of his 15<sup>th</sup> major championship and first in 10 years, shot a third-round 66 to vault into a tie for sixth place, four shots behind the lead. He began the day six shots behind. Molinari has two wins and two second-place finishes in his last four events.</p><p>Rory McIlroy was within striking distance of the lead but bogeyed two of the last three holes to drop into a sixth-place tie. He is paired with 2017 Open runner-up Matt Kuchar at 9:05 a.m.</p><p>3:10AM ET: Kiradech Aphibarnrat, Rafa Cabrera Bello</p><p>3:20AM ET: Bryson DeChambeau, Si-Woo Kim</p><p>3:30AM ET: Luke List, Keegan Bradley</p><p>3:40AM ET: Cameron Smith, Brendan Steele</p><p>3:50AM ET: Tyrrell Hatton, Paul Dunne</p><p>4:00AM ET: Cameron Davis, Brooks Koepka</p><p>4:10AM ET: Brett Rumford, Kevin Na</p><p>4:20AM ET: Henrik Stenson, Paul Casey</p><p>4:30AM ET: Gavin Green, Ryan Fox</p><p>4:45AM ET: Shubhankar Sharma, Gary Woodland</p><p>4:55AM ET: Sam Locke (a), Masahiro Kawamura</p><p>5:05AM ET: Matthew Southgate, Rhys Enoch</p><p>5:15AM ET: Marcus Kinhult, Jason Day</p><p>5:25AM ET: Adam Hadwin, Yuta Ikeda</p><p>5:35AM ET: Sung Kang, Brandon Stone</p><p>5:45AM ET: Thomas Pieters, Stewart Cink</p><p>5:55AM ET: Lee Westwood, Julian Suri</p><p>6:05AM ET: Tom Lewis, Marc Leishman</p><p>6:15AM ET: Ross Fisher, Jason Dufner</p><p>6:30AM ET: Rickie Fowler, Patrick Reed</p><p>6:40AM ET: Phil Mickelson, Eddie Pepperell</p><p>6:50AM ET: Pat Perez, Bernhard Langer</p><p>7:00AM ET: Michael Kim, Patrick Cantlay</p><p>7:10AM ET: Shaun Norris, Lucas Herbert</p><p>7:20AM ET: Sean Crocker, Louis Oosthuizen</p><p>7:30AM ET: Thorbjorn Olesen, Satoshi Kodaira</p><p>7:40AM ET: Ryan Moore, Danny Willett</p><p>7:50AM ET: Haotong Li, Kyle Stanley</p><p>8:00AM ET: Chris Wood, Byeong Hun An</p><p>8:15AM ET: Erik Van Rooyen, Yusaku Miyazato</p><p>8:25AM ET: Zander Lombard, Tony Finau</p><p>8:35AM ET: Adam Scott, Charley Hoffman</p><p>8:45AM ET: Justin Rose, Austin Cook</p><p>8:55AM ET: Tommy Fleetwood, Zach Johnson</p><p>9:05AM ET: Matt Kuchar, Rory McIlroy</p><p>9:15AM ET: Webb Simpson, Alex Noren</p><p>9:25AM ET: Francesco Molinari, Tiger Woods</p><p>9:35AM ET: Kevin Kisner, Kevin Chappell</p><p>9:45AM ET: Jordan Spieth, Xander Schauffele</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=49><div data-reactid=53><div data-reactid=61><div data-reactid=62></div><div data-reactid=77></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=95><section data-reactid=96><section data-reactid=97><div data-reactid=107><h1 data-reactid=108>Kisner not expecting awkward night with Spieth</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=115><div data-reactid=116><p data-reactid=127><article data-reactid=128><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – It might get awkward in that star-studded rental house Saturday night.</p><p>Two of the three Open co-leaders, Jordan Spieth and Kevin Kisner, are sharing a house this week near Carnoustie. Though it’ll be late by the time they both get back to the house Saturday night, they’ll have plenty of time to kill Sunday morning, with their tee times not until nearly 3 p.m. local time.</p><p>“Everybody is probably going to get treatment and eating and trying to find a bed,” Kisner said. “I’m sure there’ll be some conversations. There always are. Everybody has a few horror stories or good laughs over something that happened out there. That will probably be the end of it.”</p><p>One thing they’re almost certain to discuss is the weather.</p><p>After three days of mostly benign conditions, Sunday’s forecast calls for warm temperatures and wind gusts up to 25 mph.</p><p>“When you watch any TV, that’s all they talk about – how Sunday’s coming,” Kisner said. “It’s going to be a true test, and we’ll get to see really who’s hitting it the best and playing the best.”</p><p>Zach Johnson is also in the house – along with Rickie Fowler, Justin Thomas, Jimmy Walker and Jason Dufner – and he rode to the course Saturday with Kisner, with whom he played in the final group, at 4 p.m. It’s unclear whether the co-leaders Sunday will have a similar arrangement.</p><p>This is the third year that Spieth and Co. have shared a house at The Open, though Kisner is a new addition to the group.</p><p>“It’s the end of the week,” Kisner said. “Everybody’s got a lot of stuff going on. Everybody’s going their separate ways tomorrow. Tomorrow morning we’ll all sit around and laugh on the couch and talk about why that guy’s making so many birdies.”</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=153><div data-reactid=157><div data-reactid=165><div data-reactid=166></div><div data-reactid=181></div></div></div></section></p><p data-reactid=196><section data-reactid=197><section data-reactid=198><div data-reactid=208><h1 data-reactid=209>Lincicome makes 5 birdies and eagle, but misses cut</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=216><div data-reactid=217><p data-reactid=228><article data-reactid=229><p>Brittany Lincicome charmed curious spectators and signed a bunch of autographs Saturday at the Barbasol Championship, but she was more than a good LPGA ambassador finishing the suspended second round.</p><p>She put on a show at Keene Trace in Nicholasville, Ky.</p><p>“I’ll remember this forever,” she said.</p><p>Lincicome made five birdies, three in a row, and she holed out for eagle to help offset six bogeys in a more than respectable round of 1-under-par 71.</p><p>At 5-over 149, she missed the cut by nine shots, but that won’t be what she remembers most from the week.</p><p>“All in all, it was a great week,” Lincicome said. “I enjoyed every minute of it.</p><p>“Just being inside the ropes with the guys, hitting on the range, on the putting green . . . I feel like I'm at home here. The guys just made me feel so comfortable.”</p><p>Lincicome, 32, hopes the excitement she brought as the sixth woman to compete in a PGA Tour event will help the PGA Tour and LPGA find opportunities to get together for a joint event, or a mixed event.</p><p>“Maybe I can keep pushing in that direction, and we'll get another one,” Lincicome said.</p><p>After rain postponed her round Friday, Lincicome came back strong on Saturday. Her 71 was seven shots better than her opening round.</p><p>“Just super honored to be here,” Lincicome said. “Obviously, would've hoped for less bogeys, but to make five birdies and an eagle, that was cool.”</p><p>Lincicome made birdies at the sixth, seventh and eighth holes. That got her playing partners, Conrad Shindler and Sam Ryder, wondering aloud if there was some history in that.</p><p>“We don't know if there's ever been an LPGA player playing in a men's event have three birdies in a row,” Lincicome said.</p><p>Lincicome holed out a gap wedge from 110 yards for eagle at the 17th.</p><p>“The highlight of my day,” she said.</p><p>Lincicome was tied for fourth in driving accuracy for the week, hitting 22 of 28 fairways. She wasn’t the shortest hitter, either. She was 124th in driving distance for all holes, averaging 256 yards per drive. She didn’t finish last, either, finishing ahead of three players who posted 36-hole scores. Her biggest challenge was hitting greens, with the course playing about 600 yards longer than the average LPGA course. With longer irons into greens than she is accustomed, Lincicome hit just 16 of 36 greens in regulation.</p><p>Lincicome achieved her goals, however. She “had a blast,” felt like she won some new fans for the LPGA and connected with PGA Tour pros in a way she hopes will lead to more mixed tour experiences.</p><p>She also learned some things she hopes makes her a better player.</p><p>“Learning how to calm my nerves, and learning about myself,” Lincicome said. “This is obviously a much bigger stage, or different stage, than I'm used to.</p><p>“With a major coming up [the Ricoh Women’s British Open], hopefully that first tee shot, I won't be as nervous. I've learned to kind of play through the nerves this week, which is great.</p><p>“This week has taught me a lot.”</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=242><div data-reactid=246><div data-reactid=254><div data-reactid=255></div><div data-reactid=270></div></div></div></section></p><div data-reactid=285><section data-reactid=286><section data-reactid=287><div data-reactid=300><h1 data-reactid=301>Tiger narrowly avoids Barry Burn at 18, saves par</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=308><div data-reactid=309><p data-reactid=320><article data-reactid=321><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – Tiger Woods stood on the 18<sup>th</sup> tee at 5 under par, and everyone at Carnoustie knew the importance of the occasion.</p><p>In 2018, 10 years after his last major victory and one year after fusion surgery, Woods had for a few minutes ascended to the top of the Open leaderboard, and the Scottish masses were thrilled. They wanted to see him get the stellar round in the house.</p><p>Woods went with iron off the tee and promptly hit what he called his only bad swing of the day. He watch his ball head left, toward the home hole’s infamous Barry Burn. The ball hit an inch from trouble and, instead of kicking left into the burn, bounced right into some thick rough.</p><p>“That was the kind of break you need,” NBC’s Johnny Miller said on the telecast. “I’m surprised it didn’t bounce left. All in all, a great break.”</p><p>A good 250 yards from the hole and concerned about potentially flirting with the burn in front of the green, Woods bunted up the fairway and left himself 83 yards for his third shot.</p><p>He then flew a wedge to 3 feet and made the putt to save par and shoot 66.</p><p>“I had an angle at that flag,” Woods said about his approach. “I figured just this nice little one like I practice in the backyard. And I hit my number.”</p><p>“That was big for me just to not finish with two bogeys on the last three holes, playing as well as I did,” he said.</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=337><div data-reactid=341><div data-reactid=349><div data-reactid=350></div><div data-reactid=365></div></div></div></section></div><p data-reactid=383><section data-reactid=384><section data-reactid=385><div data-reactid=398><h1 data-reactid=399>Spieth: 'Dream come true' to lead major with Tiger in mix</h1></div></section><section data-reactid=406><div data-reactid=407><p data-reactid=418><article data-reactid=419><p>CARNOUSTIE, Scotland – Of the top five players on the leaderboard, only Jordan Spieth has won a major.</p><p>Then there’s the guy lurking in a share of sixth place.</p><p>In each of Spieth’s three previous major victories, he’s never gone up against a healthy and competitive Tiger Woods. Sure, Woods entered the final round of the 2015 Masters in a tie for fifth place, but he wasn’t really in the mix – he was 10 shots behind Spieth.</p><p>That won’t be the case Sunday, when Spieth gets to fulfill a childhood dream of chasing a major title with Woods in the mix. They are separated by four shots at Carnoustie.</p><p>“He’s certainly going to be in it tomorrow, which is really exciting for us,” Spieth said. “I’ve always wanted to battle it out in a major with Tiger. Who hasn’t? It’s kind of a dream come true just to have the opportunity."</p><p>Much like at the Masters earlier this year, Spieth said that he won’t do much leaderboard watching on Sunday. With the wind expected to gust to 25 mph, it’ll be an entirely different test than what the players faced the previous three rounds.</p><p>Even if he doesn’t glance at the massive yellow boards, Spieth will be able to tell where Woods is anyway, just based on the crowd noise.</p><p>“It’s very cool looking at it from the big picture,” he said, “but my head will be down.”</p></article></p></div></section></section><section data-reactid=435><div data-reactid=439><div data-reactid=447><div data-reactid=448></div><div data-reactid=463></div></div></div></section></p></div></div>