---
ID: 14836
post_title: 'U.S. Open qualifying: A closer look'
author: Grant Hinkle
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://golf4cheap.com/2018/06/08/u-s-open-qualifying-a-closer-look/
published: true
post_date: 2018-06-08 14:42:09
---
<div><div><div><p>U.S. Open qualifying is one of the most unique days in golf. Myriad players – from FedExCup champions to club champions – will tee it up Monday with hopes of earning a starting time at the United States’ national championship. Entrants will endure 36 holes in a single day for the privilege of teeing it up next week at historic Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in Southampton, New York.</p><p>Qualifying for the U.S. Open represents an important opportunity for a PGA TOUR member. Besides the chance for a career-changing victory, the increased FedExCup points available at Shinnecock can help players make a big leap in the standings. The U.S. Open champion will earn 600 FedExCup points.</p><p>Xander Schauffele, last year’s PGA TOUR Rookie of the Year, serves as a prime example. Schauffele squeaked into the field at Erin Hills after surviving a playoff in the Memphis, Tennessee, qualifier. He was 136th in the FedExCup when he arrived at the U.S. Open, in danger of missing the FedExCup Playoffs and losing his TOUR card.</p><p>Schauffele, who had just one top-10 in 19 previous TOUR starts, finished fifth in the U.S. Open. His impressive showing helped him win his first title three weeks later at The Greenbrier Classic.</p><p>“The U.S. Open was a huge moment in my career, it was one of the biggest stages and for me to be calm and collected throughout the week … was huge for me mentally,” Schauffele said. “It kind of gave me the confidence and allowed me to play and win this week.”</p><p>Schauffele won again at the TOUR Championship to finish third in the FedExCup.</p><p>Schauffele wasn’t the only player to impress at Erin Hills after advancing through sectional qualifying. Trey Mullinax finished ninth, the only top-10 of his rookie season on TOUR. He jumped from No. 143 to 112th in the FedExCup after Erin Hills. That’s the sort of leap that is possible in an event that offers so many FedExCup points.</p><p>The 82 points that Mullinax earned at Erin Hills were almost one quarter of his season-long tally. While he missed the FedExCup Playoffs, his U.S. Open finish allowed him to finish 137th in the standings and retain TOUR membership for this season. He has two top-10s in 2017-18, including a runner-up at the Valero Texas Open, to clinch his first spot in the FedExCup Playoffs.</p><p>Here’s a look at some of the players who will try to follow in their footsteps this year. Check back here Monday evening to see who successfully qualified for Shinnecock Hill. (Note: FedExCup ranking in parentheses; FedExCup ranking as of June 1.)</p></div><div><h3><b><span>BROOKSIDE G&amp;CC/LAKES G&amp;CC</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Keegan Bradley (43)</b>, who was named the 2011 PGA TOUR Rookie of the Year after winning the AT&amp;T Byron Nelson and PGA Championship.</p><p>• <b>Emiliano Grillo (29)</b>, the 2016 PGA TOUR Rookie of the Year who has three top-10s in his past five starts, including a pair of third-place finishes.</p><p>• <b>Beau Hossler (41)</b>, the first-year TOUR player who was runner-up in this year’s Houston Open. The 23-year-old has already played in three U.S. Opens.</p><p>• <b>Andrew Landry (15)</b>, who won this year’s Valero Texas Open and lost a playoff to Jon Rahm at the CareerBuilder Challenge. Landry played in the final group of the 2016 U.S. Open.</p><p>• <b>Patton Kizzire (5)</b>, who has won twice this season (OHL Classic at Mayakoba, Sony Open in Hawaii).</p><p>• <b>Joaquin Niemann</b>, the 19-year-old from Chile who was the world’s No. 1 amateur before turning pro. He posted top-10s at the Valero Texas Open and Fort Worth Invitational. </p><p>• <b>Adam Scott (96)</b>, a 13-time TOUR winner and former World No. 1. He won the 2004 PLAYERS Championship and 2013 Masters.</p><p>• <b>Scottie Scheffler, </b>the low amateur at last year's U.S. Open (T27). Scheffler also shot a first-round 69 in the 2016 U.S. Open. This year's sectional qualifier will be his pro debut.</p><p>• <b>Shubhankar Sharma</b>, the Indian player who held the 54-hole lead at this year’s WGC-Mexico Championship.</p><p>• <b>Kevin Tway (93)</b>, who is coming off back-to-back top-10s at the AT&amp;T Byron Nelson (T9) and Fort Worth Invitational (T5).</p><p>• <b>Kristoffer Ventura</b> and <b>Zachary Bauchou</b>, members of Oklahoma State’s 2018 NCAA title team.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>RIDGEWAY CC/COLONIAL CC (SOUTH)</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Wesley Bryan (166)</b>, winner of the 2017 RBC Heritage.</p><p>• <b>Sam Burns</b>, who ranks seventh on the Web.com Tour money list after winning the Savannah Golf Championship. Burns won the 2017 Jack Nicklaus Award as the top player in college golf.</p><p>• <b>Austin Cook (27)</b>, winner of this season’s RSM Classic.</p><p>• <b>Retief Goosen (144)</b>, who won the 2004 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills and 2001 U.S. Open at Southern Hills.</p><p>• <b>Billy Horschel (37)</b>, who paired with Scott Piercy to win this season’s Zurich Classic of New Orleans. Horschel is the 2014 FedExCup champion.</p><p>• <b>Davis Love III (202)</b>, whose 21 PGA TOUR wins include two PLAYERS Championships and the 1997 PGA. Love, 54, finished fourth in the 1995 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills.</p><p>• <b>Hunter Mahan (156)</b>, a six-time PGA TOUR winner.</p><p>• <b>Geoff Ogilvy (194)</b>, whose eight PGA TOUR victories include three World Golf Championships and the 2006 U.S. Open.</p><p>• <b>Braden Thornberry</b>, the 2017 NCAA champion. He finished T4 in last year’s FedEx St. Jude Classic.</p><p>• <b>Aaron Wise (19)</b>, the 21-year-old who won this season’s AT&amp;T Byron Nelson and was runner-up at the Wells Fargo Championship. Wise also won the 2016 NCAA Championship.</p><p>• <b>Norman Xiong</b>, the winner of this year’s Jack Nicklaus Award. Xiong won six times in his sophomore season at Oregon. He won last year’s Phil Mickelson Award as the nation’s best freshman.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>SHADOW HAWK GOLF CLUB</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Angel Cabrera (226)</b>, winner of the 2007 U.S. Open and 2009 Masters.</p><p>• <b>Cameron Champ</b>, who finished T32 in last year’s U.S. Open as an amateur. He was in eighth place after 36 holes. Champ is 60th on this season’s Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>• <b>Carlos Ortiz</b>, who won three times on the Web.com Tour in 2014 and was that tour’s Player of the Year.</p><p>• <b>Chandler Phillips</b>, a first-team All-American this year at Texas A&amp;M.</p><p>• <b>Matthew Wolff</b>, the winner of this year’s Phil Mickelson Award as the nation’s top freshman. He finished fourth in this season’s Golfweek college rankings and scored the clinching point for Oklahoma State in the NCAA Championship.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>THE BEAR’S CLUB</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Robert Allenby (237)</b>, a four-time TOUR winner and six-time participant in the Presidents Cup. He finished seventh in the 2004 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills.</p><p>• <b>Alex Cejka (87)</b>, winner of the 2015 Puerto Rico Open. The 47-year-old is 87th in this season’s FedExCup.</p><p>• <b>Cristian DiMarco</b>, the son of three-time PGA TOUR winner Chris DiMarco. The elder DiMarco finished T9 in the 2004 U.S. Open.</p><p>• <b>Cameron Tringale</b> <b>(182)</b>, who has three runner-up finishes in 235 PGA TOUR starts. He finished a career-best 20th in the 2014 FedExCup.</p><p>• <b>Andy Zhang</b>, the Florida sophomore who won this year’s SEC Championship. Zhang played the 2012 U.S. Open at 14 years old.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>SPRINGFIELD COUNTRY CLUB</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Kevin Dougherty</b>, who ranks 12th on the Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>• <b>Brice Garnett (48)</b>, who earned his first PGA TOUR title at this year’s Corales Puntacana Resort &amp; Club Championship.</p><p>• <b>Doc Redman</b>, the 2017 U.S. Amateur champion. He made his pro debut at the Memorial Tournament presented by Nationwide.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>LAKE MERCED/OLYMPIC CLUB (OCEAN)</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Shintaro Ban</b>, a first-team All-American this year at UNLV.</p><p>• <b>Max Homa</b>, the 2013 NCAA champion and two-time winner on the Web.com Tour. He is 55th on this year’s Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>• <b>Thomas Lehman Jr.</b>, the son of 1996 PGA TOUR Player of the Year Tom Lehman. His son is a junior at Cal Poly. The elder Lehman finished third at the 1995 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills.</p><p>• <b>Collin Morikawa</b>, the No. 1 player in Golfweek’s college rankings. The Cal junior played on the 2017 Walker Cup team and lost a playoff to Ollie Schniederjans at the 2016 Air Capital Classic on the Web.com Tour.</p><p>• <b>Kevin Sutherland</b>, winner of the 2017 Charles Schwab Cup and 2002 World Golf Championships-Dell Technologies Championship.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>WOODMONT COUNTRY CLUB</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Rafa Campos</b>, who is 23rd on the Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>• <b>Jason Gore</b>, a former PGA TOUR winner who played in the final group of the 2005 U.S. Open.</p><p>• <b>Billy Hurley III (213)</b>, winner of the 2016 Quicken Loans National.</p><p>• <b>Edward Loar</b>, a past PGA TOUR player who is 24th on this year’s Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>• <b>Denny McCarthy (148)</b>, a PGA TOUR rookie from Maryland, who is 148th in this season’s FedExCup.</p><p>• <b>Sebastian Munoz</b>, who is 13th on the Web.com Tour money list.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>CANOE BROOK CC</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Abraham Ancer (106)</b>, a second-year PGA TOUR player who played this season’s WGC-Mexico Championship and finished T8 at the Houston Open.</p><p>• <b>Wyndham Clark</b>, the 2017 Pac-12 Player of the Year (Oregon) who is ninth on the Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>• <b>Stewart Hagestad</b>, the 2016 U.S. Mid-Am champion and low amateur at the 2017 Masters.</p><p>• <b>Theo Humphrey</b>, a 2018 first-team All-American who advanced to the semifinals of the 2017 U.S. Amateur.</p><p>• <b>Rob Oppenheim (163)</b>, a Massachusetts native who is playing his second season on the PGA TOUR.</p><p>• <b>Johnson Wagner (138)</b>, a three-time PGA TOUR winner.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>ANSLEY GOLF CLUB (Settindown Creek)</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Roberto Castro</b>, a Georgia Tech alum who has twice qualified for the TOUR Championship (2013, ’16). He is 10th on this year’s Web.com Tour money list.</p><p>• <b>Scott McCarron</b>, who won four times on PGA TOUR Champions last year, including the Constellation SENIOR PLAYERS Championship.</p><p>• <b>Garrett Rank</b>, a three-time Canadian Mid-Amateur champion and NHL referee.</p><p>• <b>Tadd Fujikawa</b>, who played in the 2006 U.S. Open as a 15-year-old and finished T20 in the 2007 Sony Open in Hawaii.</p></div><div><h3><b><span>PORTLAND GOLF CLUB</span></b></h3><p>• <b>Charlie Beljan</b> <b>(243)</b>, a former PGA TOUR winner.</p><p>• <b>Gipper Finau</b>, the brother of PGA TOUR winner Tony Finau.</p><p>• <b>Mike Weir (244)</b>, an eight-time PGA TOUR winner, including the 2003 Masters. The 48-year-old was a five-time Presidents Cup participant. He finished fourth in the 2004 U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills.</p></div></div></div>